











                                    Acromag, Inc.
                                  30765 S.Wixom Road
                                    P.O. Box 437
                              Wixom, Michigan 48393-7037

                                Phone: (248)295-0310
                                 FAX: (248)624-9234

                               Linux Software Library
                          Information File for the IP57x Boards
                                        V1.0
                                      10/13/10




               The  information  in this manual is subject to  change
               without notice.   Acromag,  Inc.  makes no warranty of
               any kind with regard to this material and accompanying
               software,  including, but not limited to , the implied
               warranties  of  merchantability  and  fitness  for   a
               particular   purpose.    Acromag,   Inc.   assumes  no
               responsibility for any errors that may appear in  this
               manual and accompanying software.

               See GPL.txt.



               Acromag  provides an  engineering design  kit for  the
               IP57x boards (sold separately), a  must buy  for first
               time IP57x module purchasers.    The design kit (model
               IP-IOS570-EDK) contains  the 1553 software API library
               in binary form.  The 1553 software API library must be
               linked with the user's application code to obtain 1553
               support.

























	1. Overview

	This  "information"  file  contains a description of  the library
	programs  used for  the following Acromag Industrial  I/O Boards:

	     IP571 Single Channel 1553I/O Board
	     IP572 Two Channel 1553I/O Board


	2. Introduction

	The  software  for  the  IP57x  I/O  board  is  implemented  as a
	library  of "C" source functions  and a precompiled  library file
	that contains the 1553 API functions.  This will make it possible
	to utilize the board by simply linking the user's  code  with the
	provided  library files and   making   function  calls  for  each
	"command"  to be accomplished.  Most of the function  calls  will
	require  a few parameters or the address of a parameter block  to
	be  passed.   The  parameters will  include  the  board  address,
	configuration  information,  data storage addresses,  and  status
	information. These functions accomplish the following tasks:

	     - Configuration
	     - Read Status and ID
	     - Enable/Disable Interrupts
	     - 1553 Functions

	Also  included  is  a demonstration program which shows  how  the
	library routines are used.  It is also a helpful program  to  use
	when first installing the board, checking  it  out, and  learning
	how it works.



	3. List of Files

	The library  software  for  each  Acromag  I/O  board  is  in   a
	correspondingly  named  subdirectory  on the supplied media.  The
	files  which  make up the library for the IP57x boards are stored
	in the subdirectory named "IP570".

	There are two types  of program files  provided.  Library program
	files are the  files  which make  up the "1553 library".  Support
	program files contain example  programs which show how to use the
	1553 library API.










				   1






	3.1 Library Program Files

	The  following  files are included on the supplied  media  and
	make up the actual 1553 API software (static linked library).

	     Acr1553_IPx86lnx.a - 1553 Library API, compiled using
		                      GNU compiler, x86 targeted.

	1553 API library include files are located in ip570/libPrj/include.


	3.2 Support Program Files

	The following  source files are  included on the  supplied media.
	Various sample programs demonstrate the use of the 1553 library API.

        carrier.h - generic include file for carrier support.
        carrier.c - generic source - carrier support see infoCarrier.txt.

        ip570.h    - include file
        drvr570.c  - Main module calls other program functions.
        acetest.c  - Register/RAM/Interrupt/Protocol Tester program.
        bcdemo.c   - BC basic operations demonstraton program.
        bcdbuf.c   - BC double buffer demonstraton program.
        looptest.c - Performs a loop around selftest.
        mtirq.c    - MT interrupt demonstraton program.
        mtpoll.c   - MT polled demonstraton program.
        rtdbuf.c   - RT double buffer demonstraton program.
        rtirq.c    - RT interrupt demonstraton program.
        rtmode.c   - RT (Mode Code)demonstraton program.
        rtmtCmbdemo.c - RT/Monitor combination demonstraton program.
        rtmtdemo.c - Another RT/Monitor demonstraton program.
        rtpoll.c   - RT polled demonstraton program.
        Testvec.h  - File to compile in test vector data.


 	4. Software Installation

	It  is strongly advised that the user make a backup copy  of  the
	distribution  media and  that  the original media be  stored in a
	safe place.

	The  software is installed by simply copying the library files to
	the  user's  work directory and compiling and  linking  with  the
	user's application program.


	5. Hardware Installation

	For proper installation of each Acromag I/O board the user should
	refer  to  the appropriate user's manual.








				   2






	6. Usage of the Library and Support Programs

	The  software is installed  by copying the supplied files to your
	work  directory and compiling  and linking  with your application
	program.

	It  is recommended that the user read the  User's Manual for  the
	board  and  thoroughly  familiarize themselves with the hardware.
	For a new user to become familiar with the Acromag Library it may
	be  most  "straight forward"  to proceed in the following manner:


        (a) Build and load the Acromag device driver module.

            i)   See  the  information  file  in  the device driver
            directory "/home/ip/dev8620/info.txt" or 
            "/home/ip/dev8650/info.txt for information about
            building and loading the device driver module.

		   
    (b) Build and execute the Acromag Library Demonstration.

            i)   Copy  the  Acromag  Library files from the "Ip570"
            directory of the source media to a new directory  under
            /home/ip/ip570.

            ii)  Copy   the  carrier   support  routines  from  the
            "carrier"  directory  of the  source  media  to  a  new
            directory under /home/ip/carrier. 
            Selecting carrier support is accomplished  by copying the
            specific  carrier's  source files  to  the  generic names
            "carrier.c" and "carrier.h" in the carrier subdirectory. 
            Copy the ISR support routines from the "isr" directory on
            the source media to a new directory under /home/ip/isr. 

            iii) Use the makefile to build the project.

            iv)  Launch  the  debugger,  "gdb a.out"  use  the  run 
            command start the program or ./a.out.

            v)   The  Acromag  Demonstration  program  menu  should
            appear  on  the  target processor's  console  terminal.
















				   3







	The following menu is displayed:

	    IP570 Library Demonstration  Version A
	     1. Exit this Program
	     2. Set Carrier Base Address
	     3. Set IP Slot Letter
	     4. Examine/Change Current Channel
	     5. Set Up Configuration Block Parameters
	     6. Configure Board Command
	     7. Read ID PROM
	     8. Enable Interrupts
	     9. Disable Interrupts
	    10. 1553 Functions
	    Select:


	To  use  the  library  demonstration follow this sequence of menu
	selections:


	    Select  2: To set the Carrier base address.
	    Select  3: To set the IP Slot Letter.
	    Select  5: To  set  up the Configuration  Block  through  the
                   Configuration  Block Menu.   This  Menu will allow
                   the user to set the board up for operation.
	    Select  8: To enable the interrupt handler.
	    Select  6: To  configure  the board using the information  in
                   the Configuration Block.
   	    Select  7: To read the board's ID PROM.
	    Select 10: For 1553 Functions.





	6.1 Explanation of Main Demonstration Menu

	Following is an explanation of each menu selection:

	     1. Exit this Program

	     This  selection detaches the interrupt handlers used by  the
	     demonstration  program (if  any  are  attached)  and  causes
	     execution to be returned to the shell.

	     2. Set Carrier Base Address

	     This  selection  allows the user to set the addresses of the
	     carrier board being used.









				   4







	     3. Set IP Slot Letter

	     This  selection  allows the user to set or change  the  slot
	     letter of the IP module being used.   The value entered here
	     will automatically  be entered  in  the  Configuration Block
	     structures.

	     4. Examine/Change Current Channel

	     This menu selection will  allow the user  to select  one of
	     two 1553 controller channels (0 and 1) available for use on
	     the module.

	     5. Set Up Configuration Block Parameters

	     This  selection will cause the Configuration Block Parameter
	     Menu to be displayed.  Through that menu it will be possible
	     to  enter values into the various structure members  of  the
	     Configuration Block structure.   See section 6.2 for details
	     on the Configuration Block Parameter Menu which follows.

	     6. Configure Board Command

	     This  menu selection will call the  init570()  function  and
	     pass  a  pointer  which points to  the  Configuration  Block
	     structure.    Information in the Configuration Block will be
	     written to the board.

	     7. Read ID Command

	     This menu selection will  call  the  ReadIpackID() function.
	     The  I.D. information  is  read from the board and returned
	     by the ReadIpackID() function.   The status  information is
	     then displayed by the example program.

	     8. Enable Interrupts

	     This  menu selection allows the user to enable interrupts.

	     9. Disable Interrupts

	     This menu selection disables all module interrupts.

	     10. 1553 Functions

	     This  selection  displays the  1553 Functions Demonstration
	     Menu.











				   5






	6.2  Explanation of the Configuration Block Parameter Menu

	This menu  is  displayed  when  the  user  selects  the  "Set  Up
	Configuration  Block"  menu  item  from  the  Main  Demonstration
	Menu.   Through the Configuration Block Parameter Menu it will be
	possible  for  the  user to enter values into  the  Configuration
	Block structure.  Following is  the "Set Up  Configuration  Block
	Parameters"  menu.   All  numbers  are  displayed  and entered in
	hexadecimal.

         Configuration Block Parameters For Channel 0

          1. Return to Previous Menu
          2. Board I/O Pointer:     0xD0014180 (may vary)
             Board MEM Pointer:     0xD1800000 (may vary)
          3. Transceiver Inhibit A: 0x00
          4. Transceiver Inhibit B: 0x00
          5. Master Clear:          0x00
          6. Self Test Enable:      0x00
          7. RT Address Latch:      0x01
          8. Tag Clock Source:      0x00
          9. Interrupt Enable:      0x01
         10. Interrupt Vector:      0xC0
         11. Module Clock Speed:    0x00
         12. Carrier Clock Speed:   0x01
        Select:

	     (Note  that  the values in the menu will differ depending  on
	     your system.)


	     Following is an explanation of each menu selection:

	     1. Return to Previous Menu

	     This selection returns to the Main Demonstration Menu.

	     2. Board Pointer

	     The  IP  module  address  is displayed,  however,  the  base
	     address  can  only be changed through the Main Menu.    This
	     parameter  is  automatically  updated  in  the Configuration
	     Block when the  user selects  the "Set Carrier Address" item
	     in the Main Demonstration Menu.

	     3. Transceiver Inhibit A

	     This  selection  allows the user to enter a 1 or 0 value for
	     the Transceiver Inhibit A bit.










				   6






	     4. Transceiver Inhibit B

	     This  selection  allows the user to enter a 1 or 0 value for
	     the Transceiver Inhibit B bit.

	     5. Master Clear

	     This  selection  allows the user to enter a 1 or 0 value for
	     the Master Clear bit 

	     6. Self Test Enable

	     This  selection  allows the user to enter a 1 or 0 value for
	     the Self Test Enable bit.

	     7. RT Address Latch

	     This  selection  allows the user to enter a 1 or 0 value for
	     the RT Address Latch bit.

	     8. Tag Clock Source

	     This  selection  allows the user to enter a 1 or 0 value for
	     the Tag Clock Source bit.

	     9. Interrupt Enable

	     This  selection  allows the user to enter a 1 or 0 value for
	     the Interrupt Enable bit.

	     10. Interrupt Vector

	     This  selection  allows the user to enter an 8 bit value for
	     the Interrupt Vector Register.

	     11. Module Clock Speed

	     This  selection  allows  the user to enter a value  for  the
	     module clock speed.

	     12. Carrier Clock Speed

	     This  selection  allows  the user to enter a value  for  the
	     carrier  clock speed.  The carrier  clock speed should match
	     the module clock speed.














				   7






	6.3  Explanation of the 1553 Functions Menu

	This  menu  is  displayed   when  the  user   selects  the  "1553
	Functions"   menu   item  from   the  Main   Demonstration  Menu.
	Through the 1553 Functions Menu it will be possible for the  user
	exercise the various 1553 functions.

         1553 Functions
          1. Return to Previous Menu
          2. aceTest
          3. Loopback Test
          4. BcDemo
          5. BcdBuf
          6. RtMode
          7. RtPoll
          8. RtIrq
          9. RtdBuf
         10. MtPoll
         11. MtIrq
         12. RtMtDemo
         13. RtMtCmbDemo
        Select:

	Please see the "Enhanced Mini-ACE Runtime Library Software Manual"
	69090mn.pdf for additional information about the above 1553 functions.
	69090mn.pdf is reproduced with the permission of Data Device Corporation.
	The software source code for the above 1553 functions is provided and can
	be modified to suit the end users needs.



	7. Description of Library Programs.

	Following  are descriptions of the programs and files which  make
	up the library.

	Please see the "Enhanced Mini-ACE Runtime Library Software Manual"
	69090mn.pdf for an explanation of the ACE 1553 API functions.
	
	The VxWorks, DOS, and Integrity function definitions as well as
	aceDIO operations described in 69090mn.pdf are unsupported by this
	software package.

	The aceInitialize function initializes hardware resources such as
	memory and register space for a particular mode of operation
	(BC/RT/MT/RTMT/TEST).  The aceInitialize function has been
	modified from what is described in the 69090mn.pdf.












				   8






	PROTOTYPE
	#include config.h

    Adding three additional parameters int hDevice, int slot, and int chan
	to the original routines.


	S16BIT _DECL aceInitialize( S16BIT DevNum,
                                U16BIT wAccess,
                                U16BIT wMode,
                                U32BIT dwMemWrdSize,
                                U32BIT dwRegAddr,
                                U32BIT dwMemAddr,
                                int hDevice,
                                int slot,
                                int chan)

    DevNum  = number associated with the hardware being accessed.
    wAccess = ACE_ACCESS_CARD,ACE_ACCESS_SIM,ACE_ACCESS_USR
    wMode   = ACE_MODE_TEST, ACE_MODE_BC, ACE_MODE_RT, ACE_MODE_MT,
              ACE_MODE_RTMT.
    wMemWrdSize = specifies amount of ACE memory when using 
              ACE_ACCESS_SIM or ACE_ACCESS_USR
    dwRegAddr = register address
    dwMemAddr = base memory address
    hDevice   = Handle to an open Acromag carrier
    slot      = Module slot letter (A, B, C, or D)
    chan      = Mini-ACE Channel number (0 or 1)

	STATE
		Reset, Ready

	MODE
		Set by wMode parameter after this function is called.

	PARAMETERS
		DevNum  (input parameter)
				Logical Device Number
				Valid values: 0 - 31

		wAccess (input parameter)
		This parameter specifies the type of access to be used by 
		the device. Valid value: ACE_ACCESS_CARD

		wMode   (input parameter)
			This parameter specifies the mode of operation
			that this device is to be initialized to.
		Valid Values:
			ACE_MODE_TEST  Device to run in test mode.
			ACE_MODE_BC    Device to run as a bus controller
			ACE_MODE_RT    Device to run as a remote terminal
			ACE_MODE_MT    Device to run as a monitor
			ACE_MODE_RTMT  Combination remote terminal and monitor mode






				   9






		The above inputs can be logically or’ed with the following
		values:
		ACE_NO_TT_RESET
			Results in the time tag register never getting reset
		ACE_ADVANCED_MODE
			Advanced mode gives the user access to some advanced
			functions which are typically not needed if using
			this library to program an Enhanced Mini-ACE card.
			In this mode of operation you have access to the
			following functions:
				aceRegRead
				aceRegWrite
				aceMemRead
				aceMemWrite
				aceSetIrqConfig
				aceSetClockFreq
				aceSetAddressMode
				aceSetDecoderconfig

		wMemWrdSize (input parameter)
			This parameter specifies the amount of ACE memory to be
			allocated for use when using the ACE_ACCESS_SIM or the
			ACE_ACCESS_USR access type, otherwise the value is not used
			Valid Values: 4K - 64K

		dwRegAddr (input parameter)
			This parameter specifies the registry address to be used by
			the device when the access type is selected to be
			ACE_ACCESS_CARD. It is the base address of the Ip57x boards
			address space where the ACE registers are located.

		dwMemAddr (input parameter)
			Base memory address for the device to use if the access type
			is selected to be ACE_ACCESS_CARD. It is the base address of
			the Ip57x boards address space + 0x20000 where the ACE
			memory space is located.

		DESCRIPTION
			This function initializes hardware resources such as memory and register
			space for a particular mode of operation. The user can select the mode
			of operation with this function and the wMode parameter.
			Card memory can be selected by inputting ACE_ACCESS_CARD into the
			wAccess parameter of this function. This allows memory and register
			addresses to be passed directly to the library.

		EXAMPLE
			nResult = aceInitialize(DevNum,ACE_ACCESS_CARD,ACE_MODE_BC,
                      (unsigned long) 0x10000,
                      c_block570[ch_number].brd_memptr,
                      (char*)c_block570[ch_number].brd_memptr + MEM_OFFSET,
                      c_block570[ch_number].nHandle,
                      (int)c_block570[ch_number].slotLetter,
                      ch_number );






				   10







	ip570.h -  This module contains  the  definitions and  structures
	used by the library.

	init570() -  This  module  is  used  to initialize  the board for
	1553 I/O.   A pointer  to  the  Configuration  Block is passed to
	this  routine.    The routine  will  use  a  pointer  within  the
	Configuration Block to reference registers on  the board.

	  calling sequence:

	     status = init570(struct cblk570 *c_blk, int ch_number);

	     where:
 		  status - (int) Returned status of the function,
                         0 success -1 or PLL error -2 hardware error.
		  ptr  - (structure  pointer)  This is a pointer  to  the
		  Configuration Block structure.
		  ch_number (int) channel to init.




	8. Description of Support Programs

	Following  is  a  description of the support  files  and  program
	modules  which  provide  examples  for  the  use  of  the library
	programs.

        carrier.c - This  file   provides   carrier   support   routines.
        Selecting carrier support is accomplished by copying the specific
	carrier's source files  to  the  generic  names  "carrier.c"  and
        "carrier.h" in the carrier subdirectory.

	drvr570.c  - This  is a program  which demonstrates the  usage of
	the library modules.   This program is menu driven and allows the
	user to become familiar with the  IP570  board  and  the  library
	software.   The user may,  through menu  selections,   configure,
	read from and write to the board.



















				   11







